[Word] (scenario) Add citation management article (#4273)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/word/citation-management.md

---
title: 'Sample: Manage citations through your Word add-in'
description: Learn how to create an add-in that manages citations in a Word document.
ms.date: 11/15/2023
ms.topic: sample
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Sample: Manage citations in a Word document using your Word add-in

Citation management is an important aspect of documents, particularly in academia and education. Each citation style has its own guidelines for how citations should be marked in a document as well as where and how the sources should be noted. Such styles include [APA](http://apastyle.apa.org/) and [MLA](https://www.mla.org/MLA-Style).

> This article features a sample add-in that manages citations in a Word document. The add-in displays the references loaded from the user's .bib file that the user selects to cite in their document.

Reviewer: I don't think you need to clarify this is "the user's" file, so you can avoid repeating "user" twice in this sentence.
```suggestion
This article features a sample add-in that manages citations in a Word document. The add-in displays the references loaded from a .bib file that the user selects to cite in their document.
```

> ![Screen showing citation management add-in task pane.](../images/word-citation-management.png)

Reviewer: I think we're supposed to avoid saying "screen" or "screenshot".

```suggestion
![The citation management add-in task pane.](../images/word-citation-management.png)
```

- Office connected to a Microsoft 365 subscription (including Office on the web).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 16 or greater.
- npm version 8 or greater.

## Run the sample code

The sample code for this article is named [Manage citations in a Word document](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/word-citation-management). To run the sample, follow the instructions in the [readme](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/word-citation-management).

## Key steps in the sample

1. The user chooses a local .bib file that contains the references they'd like to cite.
1. The add-in reads the .bib file then displays the bibliography references in the task pane. The sample uses [@orcid/bibtexParseJs](https://github.com/ORCID/bibtexParseJs#readme) to parse the .bib file.
1. The user chooses the appropriate reference then inserts it at the cursor's location (or at the end of selected text) in the document.
1. The add-in adds a reference mark at that location in the document and adds the reference to an endnote. All endnotes are automatically listed at the end of the document.

## Make it yours

> The following are a few suggestions for how you could tailor this to your scenario.

Reviewer: Just to help make the noun more obvious for translators.
```suggestion
The following are a few suggestions for how you could tailor this sample to your scenario.
```

### Manage user settings

[Enable single sign-on (SSO) in an Office Add-in](../develop/sso-in-office-add-ins.md) to support persisting user data and settings across multiple documents. If your service provides or hosts the bibliography library, an authorized user can access and select from that bibliography in their document.

You can also [persist add-in state and settings](../develop/persisting-add-in-state-and-settings.md) in the user's current document.

> [!CAUTION]

> > Don't store sensitive information such as auth tokens or connection strings. Properties in the document aren't encrypted or protected.

Reviewer: Consider spelling out "authentication".
```suggestion
> Don't store sensitive information such as authentication tokens or connection strings. Properties in the document aren't encrypted or protected.
```

---
title: 'Sample: Manage citations through your Word add-in'
description: Learn how to create an add-in that manages citations in a Word document.
ms.date: 11/15/2023
ms.topic: sample
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Sample: Manage citations in a Word document using your Word add-in

> Citation management is an important aspect of documents, particularly in academia and education. Each citation style has its own guidelines for how citations should be marked in a document as well as where and how the sources should be noted. Examples of citation styles are [APA](http://apastyle.apa.org/) and [MLA](https://www.mla.org/MLA-Style).

Reviewer: Suggestion to make this sound a little less repetitive.
```suggestion
Citation management is an important aspect of documents, particularly in academia and education. Each citation style has its own guidelines for how citations should be marked in a document as well as where and how the sources should be noted. Such styles include [APA](http://apastyle.apa.org/) and [MLA](https://www.mla.org/MLA-Style).
```

> This article shows how to create an add-in that showcases the basics of managing citations in a Word document. The add-in displays the references loaded from the user's .bib file then the user can insert selected references into the document.

Reviewer: A couple suggestions to make this more concise. I'm also not sure we're showing people "how" to do something, as much as showing them a working version. Maybe that nuance isn't important, but something to consider.
```suggestion
This article features a sample add-in that manages citations in a Word document. The add-in displays the references loaded from the user's .bib file that the user selects to cite in their document.
```

![Screen showing citation management add-in task pane.](../images/word-citation-management.png)

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).
- Office connected to a Microsoft 365 subscription (including Office on the web).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 16 or greater.
- npm version 8 or greater.

> - @orcid/bibtexParseJs, a JavaScript library for parsing the selected .bib file.

Reviewer: Same comment as from the sample: this should be included when they run `npm install`.

## Run the sample code

The sample code for this article is named [Manage citations in a Word document](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/word-citation-management). To run the sample, follow the instructions in the [readme](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/word-citation-management).

## Key steps in the sample

1. The user chooses a local .bib file that contains the references they'd like to cite.
1. The add-in reads the .bib file then displays the bibliography references in the task pane. The sample uses [@orcid/bibtexParseJs](https://github.com/ORCID/bibtexParseJs#readme) to parse the .bib file.
1. The user chooses the appropriate reference then inserts it at the cursor's location (or at the end of selected text) in the document.
1. The add-in adds a reference mark at that location in the document and adds the reference to an endnote. All endnotes are automatically listed at the end of the document.

> ## Additional considerations for your solution

Reviewer: I liked the "Make it your own" tone from the other readme.  Can we bring that vibe here?

The following considerations will help you plan how to modify your solution to meet your desired functionality.

### Use single sign-on

[Enable single sign-on (SSO) in an Office Add-in](../develop/sso-in-office-add-ins.md) to support persisting user data and settings across multiple documents. If your service provides or hosts the bibliography library, an authorized user can access and select from that bibliography in their document.

### Persist add-in state and settings

> [Persist add-in state and settings](../develop/persisting-add-in-state-and-settings.md) in the user's current document.

Reviewer: This seems to be a repetition from the SSO section. Should the two be merged, since the scenarios are intertwined?

> [!CAUTION]
> Don't store sensitive information such as auth tokens or connection strings. Properties in the document aren't encrypted or protected.

### Use footnotes

> List the references in [footnotes](/javascript/api/word/word.range?view=word-js-1.5&preserve-view=true#word-word-range-insertfootnote-member(1)) at the end of the page instead of endnotes, according to the citation style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List the references in [footnotes](/javascript/api/word/word.range#word-word-range-insertfootnote-member(1)) at the end of the page instead of endnotes, according to the citation style.
```

> Alternatively, allow the user to choose where they'd like the references to be displayed. If so, you can update the add-in to persist the user's preference using a [document property](#persist-add-in-state-and-settings) or as part of their [authenticated experience](#use-single-sign-on).

Reviewer: Not sure you really need the links, since the related information is only a couple lines above.
```suggestion
Alternatively, allow the user to choose where they'd like the references to be displayed. If so, you can update the add-in to persist the user's preference using a document property or as part of their authenticated experience.
```

### Update citation style

Update the citation style used to display the references in the endnotes (or footnotes).

> Alternatively, provide various style options then allow the user to choose. If so, you can update the add-in to persist the user's preference using a [document property](#persist-add-in-state-and-settings) or as part of their [authenticated experience](#use-single-sign-on).

Reviewer: Same comment as before.
```suggestion
Alternatively, provide various style options then allow the user to choose. If so, you can update the add-in to persist the user's preference using a document property or as part of their authenticated experience.
```

> ### Replace bibtexParseJs

Reviewer: Should this be in code ticks?
```suggestion
### Replace `bibtexParseJs`
```

Author: I'm treating this as the name of the library, not necessarily code

Replace the .bib file parser [@orcid/bibtexParseJs](https://github.com/ORCID/bibtexParseJs#readme) with your own or another available parser, especially if this option doesn't provide the functionality you need for your solution.

## See also

> 

Reviewer: Considering adding a link to the main sample list.
